Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) is an Indian school, with the status of an institution of eminence and deemed university. Over, students from different nations study there in the sprawling university town, which sits on a plateau in the Udupi district of Karnataka. The school has campuses in Mangalore, Bangalore, and Jamshedpur in India, as well as global campuses in Dubai and Malaysia.

[('What does MAHE stand for?', 'Manipal Academy of Higher Education'),
 ('In what district of Karnataka is the Manipal Academy of Higher Education '
  'located?',
  'Udupi'),
 ('Where does the Manipal Academy of Higher Education have campuses?',
  'Mangalore, Bangalore, and Jamshedpur')]



In, Dr. T. M. A. Pai founded India's first private medical school, the Kasturba Medical College, and five years later the Manipal Institute of Technology was established. Initially, degrees were awarded by Karnataka University, Dharwad, and later by the University of Mysore. From to they were awarded by Mangalore University. The current organizational structure was formed in when Kasturba Medical College and Manipal College of Dental Sciences were accorded deemed university status by UGC. Manipal Institute of Technology became a constituent unit of Manipal Academy of Higher Education in.

[("Who founded India's first private medical school?", 'Dr. T. M. A. Pai'),
 ('Who initially awarded degrees to the Manipal Institute of Technology?',
  'Karnataka University, Dharwad,'),
 ('What university awarded degrees to the Manipal Institute of Technology?',
  'Mangalore'),
 ('What two schools were granted university status by the UGC?',
  'Kasturba Medical College and Manipal College of Dental Sciences'),
 ('What institution did the Manipal Institute of Technology become a '
  'constituent unit of?',
  'Manipal Academy of Higher Education')]



In, MAHE introduced five online degree and diploma programs in business administration, data science, business analytics, and logistics and supply chain. The campus at Manipal covers acres of land and is centered in the university town of Manipal. Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) is an Indian school, with the status of an Institution of Eminence and deemed university. It comprises six libraries spread across its medical, humanities, and engineering school campuses. Budgetary provisions are given for research through capital allocations for the maintenance of animal facilities, consumables, equipment, etc. ₹ million (US $,) was sanctioned to the Manipal Institute of Technology in towards funding innovation. MCOPS, Manipal, sends its second-year postgraduate (PG) students for collaborative research programs at R&D centers all over the country.

[('How many online degree and diploma programs did MAHE introduce?', 'five'),
 ('How much land does the Manipal campus cover?', 'acres'),
 ('What does MAHE stand for?', 'Manipal Academy of Higher Education'),
 ('How many libraries does the Manipal Academy of Higher Education have?',
  'six'),
 ('How is research funded at the Manipal Academy of Higher Education?',
  'Budgetary provisions are given for research through capital allocations for '
  'the maintenance of animal facilities, consumables, equipment, etc.'),
 ('What type of students does MCOPS send?', 'second-year postgraduate (PG) students')]



Often, the research carried out by them becomes a part of the intellectual property of the company. The Manipal Life Science Centre has a research team and is undertaking several research projects funded by DBT, DST, etc. MLSC is linked to several international research institutions such as Wistar Institute, Philadelphia, University of Queensland, and many more. The Manipal Advanced Research Group was formed in early with an aim to grow new research projects in fundamental sciences and promote interdisciplinary cooperation in areas between basic research, biomedical science, and engineering. Media related to Manipal University at Wikimedia Commons. 

[('How many research projects is the Manipal Life Science Centre undertaking?',
  'several research projects'),
 ('What is the Manipal Life Science Centre linked to?',
  'several international research institutions'),
 ('What type of research is the Manipal Advanced Research Group a part of?',
  'basic research'),
 ('What did the Manipal Advanced Research Group aim to grow?',
  'new research projects'),
 ('The Manipal Advanced Research Group aims to promote interdisciplinary '
  'cooperation between basic research, engineering, and what other field?',
  'biomedical science'),
 ('The Manipal Advanced Research Group was formed in early with an aim to grow '
  'new research projects in what?',
  'fundamental sciences'),
 ('What does the Manipal Life Science Centre have?', 'a research team'),
 ('What is the name of the international research institute that MLSC is '
  'linked to?',
  'Wistar Institute'),
 ('What did the Manipal Advanced Research Group aim to promote?',
  'interdisciplinary cooperation'),
 ('What is often a part of the intellectual property of a company?',
  'the research')]



Manipal is a suburb and university town within Udupi, in coastal Karnataka, India. Manipal is located five kilometers away from the center of Udupi city, in Udupi district, Karnataka (state) in southwestern India. It is administered by the Udupi City Municipality. The suburb is located in coastal Karnataka, km north of Mangalore and km east of the Arabian Sea.

[('Where is Manipal located?', 'coastal Karnataka'),
 ('Where is Manipal located?', 'southwestern India'),
 ('In what country is Manipal located?', 'India'),
 ('Where is Manipal located?', 'Karnataka'),
 ('What is a suburb and university town within Udupi?', 'Manipal'),
 ('What district is Manipal located in?', 'Udupi district'),
 ('Manipal is five kilometers from the center of what city?', 'Udupi city'),
 ('Where is Manipal located?', 'Udupi'),
 ('Manipal is north of what city?', 'Mangalore'),
 ('How far is Manipal from Mangalore?', 'km')]



From its location on a plateau, at an altitude of about meters above sea level, it commands a panoramic view of the Arabian Sea to the west and the Western Ghats to the east. Home to the Manipal Academy of Higher Education, the town attracts more than twenty-five thousand students every year; hence, most of the population consists of students or university staff.

[('At what altitude does Manipal command a panoramic view of the Arabian Sea '
  'to the west?',
  'sea level'),
 ('What is the altitude above sea level of Manipal?', 'meters'),
 ('What does most of the population of Manipal consist of?',
  'university staff'),
 ('What kind of view does Manipal have of the Arabian Sea to the west?',
  'a panoramic view'),
 ('What sea does Manipal command a panoramic view of to the west?',
  'the Arabian Sea'),
 ('What mountain range is east of Manipal?', 'the Western Ghats'),
 ('How many people attend the Manipal Academy of Higher Education each year?',
  'students'),
 ('In what direction do the Western Ghats face the Arabian Sea?', 'the east'),
 ('Why does Manipal commands a panoramic view of the Arabian Sea to the west '
  'and the Western Ghats to the east?',
  'its location'),
 ('What is the altitude above sea level of Manipal?', 'about meters')]



There are numerous spots throughout the suburb that attract students from nearby Mangalore and Udupi, such as End Point, Manipal Lake, and Malpe Beach. The city owes its rapid development to Manipal Academy of Higher Education for converting this into a student city. It is called 'Campus Town' by the locals.

[('What beach attracts students from Mangalore and Udupi?', 'Malpe Beach'),
 ('End Point, Manipal Lake, and Malpe Beach attract students from what city?',
  'nearby Mangalore'),
 ('What lake attracts students from Mangalore and Udupi?', 'Manipal Lake'),
 ('What is the name of the spot that attracts students from Mangalore and '
  'Udupi?',
  'End Point'),
 ('What attracts students from Mangalore and Udupi?', 'numerous spots'),
 ('What does Manipal Lake attract?', 'students'),
 ('Who converted Mangalore into a student city?', 'Manipal Academy'),
 ('End Point, Manipal Lake, and Malpe Beach attract students from what city?',
  'Mangalore'),
 ('End Point, Manipal Lake, and Malpe Beach attract students from Mangalore '
  'and what other city?',
  'Udupi'),
 ('Manipal Academy of what is responsible for converting Mangalore into a '
  'student city?',
  'Higher Education')]



A regional information technology hub, Manipal has one of the highest densities of mobile phones in India. Manipal derives its name from 'Manna Palla' (meaning 'muddy hole' or 'muddy lake' in Tulu), commonly called Manipal Lake, a freshwater lake within Manipal. [Citation needed] Situated km (. mi) east of the center of the temple city of Udupi and km (mi) north of Mangalore, Manipal was previously part of the Shivalli Village Panchayat. Now it is part of Udupi City.

[('What is a freshwater lake within Manipal called?', 'Manipal Lake'),
 ('What city has one of the highest densities of mobile phones in India?',
  'Manipal'),
 ('Manipal has one of the highest densities of what in India?',
  'mobile phones'),
 ('Manipal has one of the highest densities of mobile phones in what country?',
  'India'),
 ('What is Manipal?', 'A regional information technology hub'),
 ("What does 'Manna Palla' mean?", 'muddy hole'),
 ('Where is Manipal located?', 'Tulu'),
 ('What is the densities of mobile phones in Manipal?',
  'the highest densities'),
 ('What is Manipal Lake?', 'a freshwater lake'),
 ("What does 'Manna Palla' mean?", 'muddy lake')]



The name is derived from 'Munn' and 'Palla,' Anglicized to Manipal. Munn means 'mud' and Palla means 'lake' in Tulu language. This lake, roughly in the shape of mtrs. Diameter circle, after which Manipal is named, is located in the middle of the town and about km (. mi) away from the Arabian Sea and has a boating facility.

[('Manipal is derived from Munn and what other word?', 'Palla'),
 ('What is Manipal Anglicized to?', 'Manipal'),
 ('What language does Palla come from?', 'Tulu language'),
 ("What does 'Palla' mean in Tulu?", 'Munn'),
 ('How far is Manipal from the Arabian Sea?', 'km'),
 ('How far away from the Arabian Sea is Manipal?', 'mi'),
 ('What does Palla mean in Tulu?', 'lake'),
 ('What language does Palla come from?', 'Tulu'),
 ('What does the lake have?', 'a boating facility'),
 ('Where is Manipal located?', 'the Arabian Sea')]



The Swarna River passes just north of Manipal. Recreational facilities are available through End Point Park and Tree Park. Manipal was once a barren hill with few trees. This hill was transformed into the university town it now is by Dr. T. M. A. Pai, who first started the Kasturba Medical College in, now a part of the university, the Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE). Tourist spots like Agumbe, Kudremukh, Kapu, and Malpe are also located nearby.

[('What park is near Manipal?', 'Tree Park'),
 ('What is the name of the park in Manipal?', 'End Point Park'),
 ('The Swarna River passes just north of what city?', 'Manipal'),
 ('What river passes just north of Manipal?', 'Swarna River'),
 ('What was once a barren hill?', 'few trees'),
 ('What does MAHE stand for?', 'Higher Education'),
 ('What is the Manipal Academy of Higher Education?', 'MAHE'),
 ('Who started the Kasturba Medical College?', 'Dr. T. M. A. Pai'),
 ('What does MAHE stand for?', 'the Manipal Academy'),
 ('Who started the Kasturba Medical College?', 'T. M. A. Pai')]



From September to February, the weather in Manipal is tropical with daily temperatures averaging °C (°F). From June to mid-October, Manipal witnesses one of the most extreme monsoons in the world, with the annual precipitation ranging from – cm (– in). The months of December to May are hot and humid, with the daily temperatures typically peaking at °C (°F).

[('What is the average daily temperature in Manipal?', '°C'),
 ('What is the average daily temperature in Manipal?', '°'),
 ('What is the average temperature in Manipal?', 'daily temperatures'),
 ('What is the average temperature in Manipal from September to February?',
  'F'),
 ('Where is one of the most extreme monsoons in the world?', 'Manipal'),
 ('When does the weather in Manipal begin to change?', 'September'),
 ('What is the average temperature in Manipal?', 'daily'),
 ('In what month does the weather in Manipal average °C?', 'February'),
 ('What is the annual precipitation in inches in Manipal?', 'cm'),
 ('When is the weather in Manipal tropical?', 'September to February')]



Being away from large urban centers and the highly tropical climate, the town attracts a large number of birds, with different species of birds being recorded in February, including rarities such as the Tickell's Thrush, Blue-eared Kingfisher, and Slaty-breasted Rail.

[('Along with the tropical climate, what is the town away from?',
  'large urban centers'),
 ('What does the town attract a large number of?', 'birds'),
 ('What type of birds were recorded in February?', 'different species'),
 ("When are different species of birds recorded in Tickell's Thrush?",
  'February'),
 ("What type of birds are Tickell's Thrush, Blue-eared Kingfisher, and "
  'Slaty-breasted Rail?',
  'rarities'),
 ('How many birds does the town attract?', 'a large number'),
 ('What is the name of the Thrush that is a rarity in the town?', 'Tickell'),
 ('What type of bird is a Blue-eared?', 'Kingfisher'),
 ("Along with the Tickell's Thrush, Blue-eared Kingfisher, and Blue-eared "
  'Kingfisher, what rare bird is found in the town?',
  'Slaty-breasted Rail'),
 ('What is the name of the rare bird that is found in the town?',
  'Blue-eared Kingfisher')]



Manipal is connected to Mangalore (takes about minutes via road) and towns such as Udupi, Karkala, and Kundapur by several private bus services and KSRTC city buses which run every thirty minutes.

[('What type of buses connect Manipal to Mangalore?',
  'several private bus services'),
 ('What bus service runs every thirty-minutes?', 'KSRTC city buses'),
 ('How long does it take to get from Manipal to Mangalore?', 'minutes'),
 ('Along with Karkala and Kundapur, what town is connected to Manipal by '
  'private bus services?',
  'Udupi'),
 ('Along with Udupi and Kundapur, what town is connected to Manipal by bus?',
  'Karkala'),
 ('How is Manipal connected to Mangalore?', 'road'),
 ('Along with Udupi, Karkala and Udupi, what town is connected to Manipal by '
  'private bus services?',
  'Kundapur'),
 ('What is the name of the city bus service that connects Manipal to '
  'Mangalore?',
  'KSRTC'),
 ('What city is connected to Mangalore by road?', 'Manipal'),
 ('What city is Manipal connected to?', 'Mangalore')]



The town also has overnight bus services to Bangalore, Hyderabad, Goa, and Mumbai. There are also buses which connect to the famous nearby tourist attractions like Malpe Beach, Delta Beach, Dharmasthala. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation runs air-conditioned bus service between Mangalore International Airport and Manipal.

[('What type of bus service does Mangalore have?', 'overnight bus services'),
 ('What type of buses connect to Malpe Beach, Delta Beach, and Dharmasthala?',
  'buses'),
 ('Mangalore has overnight bus services to Bangalore, Hyderabad, Goa, and what '
  'other city?',
  'Mumbai'),
 ('What is the name of the famous beach in Mangalore?', 'Delta Beach'),
 ('What famous beach does Mangalore have a bus service to?', 'Malpe Beach'),
 ('Where does the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation run '
  'air-conditioned bus service between Manipal and?',
  'Mangalore International Airport'),
 ('Mangalore has overnight bus services to Bangalore, Hyderabad, Mumbai, and '
  'what other city?',
  'Goa'),
 ('Mangalore has overnight bus services to what city?', 'Bangalore'),
 ('What type of bus service does the Karnataka State Road Transport '
  'Corporation run between Mangalore International Airport and Manipal?',
  'air-conditioned bus service'),
 ('Where does the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation run a bus service '
  'between Mangalore International Airport and?',
  'Manipal')]



The nearest railway station is Udupi Station (UD) on the Konkan Railway line, located four kilometers west of Manipal. It has trains connecting Bengaluru, Mumbai, Goa, Kerala, New Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, Punjab.

[('What is the closest railway station to Manipal?', 'Udupi Station'),
 ('Udupi Station is located four kilometers west of what city?', 'Manipal'),
 ('What is the closest railway station to Manipal?', 'Udupi Station (UD'),
 ('On what railway line is Udupi Station located?', 'the Konkan Railway line'),
 ('What is Udupi Station?', 'The nearest railway station'),
 ('Which state has the closest railway station to Udupi Station?',
  'Madhya Pradesh'),
 ('Which state has the closest railway station to Udupi Station?',
  'Uttar Pradesh'),
 ('Along with Uttarakhand and Bengaluru, what state has a railway station near '
  'Udupi Station?',
  'Punjab'),
 ("What is Uttarakhand's nearest railway station?", 'Tamil Nadu'),
 ('What city is near Udupi Station?', 'New Delhi')]



It is about a kilometer away from the National Highway A. Mangalore Central (MAQ) is the nearest major railway station and is located in Mangalore, km (mi) south of the town.

[('What is the nearest railway station?', 'Mangalore'),
 ('What is the nearest railway station?',
  'the National Highway A. Mangalore Central'),
 ('What is Mangalore Central also known as?', 'MAQ'),
 ('What is Mangalore Central?', 'the nearest major railway station'),
 ('Where is Mangalore Central located?', 'the town'),
 ('What is the closest railway station to Mangalore?', '(MAQ'),
 ('How far south of Mangalore is MAQ?', '(mi'),
 ('What is the closest railway station to Mangalore?', 'It')]



The nearest international airport is Mangalore International Airport, which is located around km (mi) south from Manipal, connecting it to Indian cities like Mumbai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Chennai, and Delhi, and internationally to the Middle Eastern countries like Oman, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and United Arab Emirates. Pre-paid taxis are available to transport passengers to and from Manipal and Udupi. 

[('What is the closest international airport to Manipal?',
  'Mangalore International Airport'),
 ('Mumbai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Chennai, and Delhi are some of what cities?',
  'Indian cities'),
 ('Along with Oman, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and what other '
  'country is Mangalore International Airport connected to?',
  'United Arab Emirates'),
 ('Oman, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and Udupi are countries in what '
  'region?',
  'Middle Eastern'),
 ('Where is Mangalore International Airport located?', 'Manipal'),
 ('Along with Oman, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates, what '
  'country has an international airport near Mangalore International Airport?',
  'Saudi Arabia'),
 ('Mumbai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Chennai, and Delhi are cities in what '
  'country?',
  'Indian'),
 ('Along with Bangalore, Hyderabad, Chennai, and Delhi, what Indian city has '
  'an international airport near Mangalore International Airport?',
  'Mumbai'),
 ('Along with Mumbai, Hyderabad, Chennai, and Delhi, what Indian city has an '
  'international airport near Mangalore International Airport?',
  'Bangalore'),
 ('What is Mangalore International Airport?',
  'The nearest international airport')]



KSRTC runs air-conditioned direct bus service between Manipal and Mangaluru International Airport. Buses also connect Manipal directly to the Kempegowda International Airport in Bangalore, to cater to the large number of international students studying at the university. KSRTC recently started 'Flybus', a premium daily bus service from Manipal to Kempegowda International Airport in Bangalore. Manipal gained prominence when Dr. T.M.A Pai founded the Kasturba Medical College in , the Manipal Institute of Technology in , a popular institute for engineering, and other colleges later, all of which became a part of Manipal Academy of Higher Education in . Manipal Academy of Higher Education has been granted the status of Institute of Eminence in the year.

[('What was the name of the popular institute for engineering founded by Dr. '
  'T.M.A Pai?',
  'Manipal Institute of Technology in'),
 ('What airport does KSRTC connect Manipal to?',
  'Kempegowda International Airport'),
 ('What is Flybus?',
  'daily bus service from Manipal to Kempegowda International Airport'),
 ('What academy did the Manipal Institute of Technology become a part of?',
  'Manipal Academy of Higher Education in')]



It has also been ranked among the top ten private engineering colleges within India. It is ranked nd within the state of Karnataka. Pai also founded the Manipal Pre-University College. Manipal is a major technology and medical research hub, with major conferences and seminars organized almost every week. Since the establishment of Manipal University Technology and Business Incubator (MUTBI), the in-house business incubator of the university, a large number of student-run technology and media startups have sprung up. Manipal Institute of Technology is a private engineering school under Manipal Academy of Higher Education in India. The Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), Manipal, was established in as one of the first self-financing engineering colleges in the country.

[('Manipal has been ranked among what private engineering colleges in India?',
  'top ten'),
 ('Where is Manipal ranked within the state of Karnataka?', 'nd'),
 ('Who founded the Manipal Pre-University College?', 'Pai'),
 ('What is Manipal a hub for?', 'technology and medical research'),
 ('What type of startups have sprung up at Manipal?',
  'student-run technology and media startups'),
 ('Manipal Institute of Technology is a private engineering school under what '
  'name in India?',
  'Manipal Academy of Higher Education'),
 ('What type of engineering college was the Manipal Institute of Technology '
  'established as?',
  'self-financing')]



MIT is a constituent unit of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Manipal, Karnataka, India. The institute has academic departments and awards undergraduate, graduate, and postgraduate degrees. The MIT campus is spread over acres of what once used to be a desolate plateau of hard, laterite rock in South Karnataka's Udupi District. The institute undertakes sponsored research programs supported by funding agencies such as DST, CSIR, AICTE, and the Ministry of Environmental Sciences. It has collaborative research programs in association with premier research laboratories and institutes in India and abroad. In the government of had decreed it as Institute of Eminence. Manipal Engineering College (MEC) was inaugurated on May by the then Chief Minister of Mysore, S. Nijalingappa.

[('What does MAHE stand for?', 'Manipal Academy of Higher Education'),
 ('What types of degrees does MIT award?',
  'undergraduate, graduate, and postgraduate'),
 ('How many acres is the MIT campus spread over?', 'acres'),
 ('What type of programs does MIT undertake?', 'sponsored research'),
 ('What type of programs does MIT have?', 'collaborative research'),
 ('Who decreed MIT as Institute of Eminence?', 'the government'),
 ('What does MEC stand for?', 'Manipal Engineering College')]



The first president of the college was Roque Fernandes. In the initial months, lectures were held at the Kasturba Medical College, Manipal campus before the infrastructure was ready at its present campus towards the end of . The institute started with staff members and an annual intake of students for the undergraduate courses on a campus of acres (km). Civil engineering was the first discipline to be offered at the institute, but by , full undergraduate programs were also available in the areas of mechanical engineering and electrical engineering. Housing facilities were operational from for outstation students. In the initial years, the institute was affiliated with the Karnatak University.

[('Who was Roque Fernandes?', 'president'),
 ('When was the infrastructure ready at the Kasturba Medical College, Manipal '
  'campus?',
  'towards the end of'),
 ('How did the institute start?',
  'staff members and an annual intake of students'),
 ('What was the first discipline to be offered at the institute?',
  'Civil engineering'),
 ('What was operational from outstation students?', 'Housing facilities'),
 ('What university was the institute affiliated with in the initial years?',
  'Karnatak')]



In , the institute got affiliated to the University of Mysore. More courses were added over the decades as the college expanded. The MIT, Manipal student chapter of the Institution of Engineers (Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering) was established in the mid-s. In , chemical engineering was introduced as a branch of study, followed by electronics and communication engineering. In , the semester scheme was adopted, and a one-year postgraduate diploma in industrial engineering was offered. In the same year, the Venugopala Temple, modelled on the famous Kirti Mandir, Vadodara, Gujarat, was built. The MIT campus has been visited by several well-known persons at various times. The Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, visited the college in .

[('When did MIT become affiliated with the University of Mysore?', 'In'),
 ('How did the college expand over the years?', 'More courses were added'),
 ('When was the MIT, Manipal student chapter established?', 'mid-s. In'),
 ('What type of diploma was offered at MIT in industrial engineering?',
  'one-year postgraduate diploma'),
 ('Where is the Venugopala Temple located?', 'Kirti Mandir,'),
 ('When did the Dalai Lama visit MIT?',
  'The Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, visited the college in'),
 ('When did the Dalai Lama visit MIT?',
  'Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, visited the college in')]



The s saw the visit of Smt. Indira Gandhi, the then Prime Minister of India. In , it was renamed as Manipal Institute of Technology. The institute was brought under the purview of Mangalore University in . In , other branches of study such as industrial production and architecture were introduced. The construction of the 7-floor library building with an area of 60,000 square feet (5,600 m) and more hostel blocks, including 7th, 8th blocks and women's hostels were completed in the s. The swimming pool was inaugurated in , and the floodlit basketball court at Kamath Circle in . In Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) was granted deemed university status, and Manipal Institute of Technology became its constituent college.

[('When did Indira Gandhi visit Manipal Institute of Technology?', 'The'),
 ('When did Smt. Gandhi visit Manipal Institute of Technology?', 'In'),
 ('When did Smt. Gandhi visit Manipal Institute of Technology?', 'In'),
 ('When was the Manipal Institute of Technology brought under the purview of '
  'what university?',
  'Mangalore University in'),
 ('When did Smt. Gandhi visit Manipal Institute of Technology?', 'In'),
 ('When was the swimming pool inaugurated?',
  'swimming pool was inaugurated in'),
 ('When was the swimming pool inaugurated?',
  'swimming pool was inaugurated in'),
 ('What does MAHE stand for?', 'Manipal Academy of Higher Education')]



Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, the then President of India, visited the college and interacted with the students in . This visit was later repeated in by the then President of India Pratibha Patil. saw the construction of the Innovation Center, housing companies such as Phillips and EMC and associated research and development. The 7-floor 9th block located between the 3rd and 4th blocks for housing lady students was also completed during this period. The adjoining new lecture hall complex ('NLH') was built anticipating the increase in intake and was inaugurated in the year.

[('How did Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam interact with students?',
  'interacted with the students in'),
 ('Who was Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam?', 'President of India'),
 ('Along with the Innovation Center and research and development, what '
  'companies were housing in the college?',
  'Phillips and EMC'),
 ('What was completed between the 3rd and 4th blocks?', '7-floor 9th block'),
 ("What is 'NLH'?", 'lecture hall complex')]



Saw the inauguration of Academic Block, the largest academic building on campus, housing classrooms, academic and research labs, and department and faculty offices. Undergraduate courses in instrumentation and control engineering were added in and mechatronics was added in . Those in aeronautical engineering and automobile engineering were added in . The Department of Architecture was rechristened as the Faculty of Architecture in , and then as Manipal School of Architecture and Planning and Design, as a separate institute under the Manipal Academy of Higher Education in . In , an integrated course in computer science and communication engineering was added, under the Department of Information and Communication Technology.

[('What course was added to the Academic Block?', 'mechatronics was added in'),
 ('What field of study was added to the Academic Block?', 'mechatronics'),
 ('What was the Department of Architecture rechristened as?',
  'Faculty of Architecture in'),
 ('What was the Department of Architecture rechristened as?',
  'Faculty of Architecture in'),
 ('The Manipal School of Architecture and Planning and Design was a separate '
  'institute under what institution?',
  'Manipal Academy of Higher Education in')]



The annual undergraduate student intake increased from 500 spread over engineering disciplines in the year to 1,800 spread over 11 disciplines in . As of July [update], the institute has an intake of more than 4,000 students. The institute was also visited by Smt. Pratibha Patil, the then President of India, for the university's annual convocation in December . The then Finance Minister and future President of India, Shri Pranab Mukherjee, also visited the institute on May to inaugurate one of the academic blocks. The institute was visited by acclaimed South Indian film director S.S. Rajmouli in October . The institute also played host to the 46th annual convention of the National Association of Students of Architecture (NASA) in January .

[('How many undergraduates did the institute have in the year?',
  '1,800 spread over 11 disciplines in'),
 ('As of July, how many students were in the institute?', '4,000'),
 ('When did Smt. Pratibha Patil visit the institute?', 'December'),
 ('When did Smt. Pratibha Patil visit the institute?', 'December'),
 ('Who inaugurated one of the academic blocks?',
  'The then Finance Minister and future President of India, Shri Pranab '
  'Mukherjee,'),
 ('When did S.S. Rajmouli visit the institute?', 'October'),
 ('When was the 46th annual convention of the National Association of Students '
  'of Architecture held?',
  'January')]



The new logo of the institute was unveiled by alumni Nokia former CEO Rajiv Suri during the institute's convocation. It was designed by Kartikeya Rastogi, who was then a senior year chemical engineering undergraduate student. In July , it was among the two private institutes to be decreed with Institute of Eminence. MIT Manipal's campus is located km ( mi) north of Mangalore. The campus is located km from Udupi's railway station and is spread over an area of 188 acres (76 ha) housing academic buildings, and residential buildings (known as blocks), with a total capacity of 10,000 inhabitants.

[('Who unveiled the new logo of MIT Manipal?', 'Rajiv Suri'),
 ("What was Kartikeya Rastogi's major?", 'chemical engineering'),
 ('When was MIT Manipal decreed with Institute of Eminence?', 'July'),
 ("How far is MIT Manipal's campus from Mangalore?", 'mi)'),
 ("How many people are on MIT Manipal's campus?", '10,000')]



Kamath Circle has been renamed and renovated as Student Plaza with a two-floored colosseum-like structure and a musical fountain at the center also containing a couple of general stores. The food court, with a seating capacity of 500 people, caters to the food needs of about 1,500 people daily. A second food court was constructed in near the 7th and 8th hostel blocks. Apart from Food Court and Food Court, there exists other food courts known as Annapoorna Mess and Apporva Mess located near Hostel Block and Hostel Block D, respectively. MIT has been using a credit-based system since , in which each course is assigned a number of credits.

[('What has been renamed and renovated as Student Plaza?', 'Kamath Circle'),
 ('How many people do the food court cater to daily?', '1,500'),
 ('Where was a second food court constructed?', '7th and 8th'),
 ('What is the name of the food court located near Hostel Block D?',
  'Annapoorna Mess'),
 ('How long has MIT been using a credit-based system?',
  'MIT has been using a credit-based system since')]



The odd semester starts around the month of July and ends by December, and the even semester starts around January and ends by May. Manipal Academy of Higher Education is accredited by the Government of India's National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). MIT Manipal offers full-time, four/five-year undergraduate (bachelor's degree) programs in the various disciplines, as well as Master of Technology (M.Tech.) degrees and various other postgraduate programs awarding Master of Science (M.S.) in Software Engineering, Master of Computer Applications (M.C.A.), and an integrated M.B.A. program (in conjunction with other programs in MAHE).

[('When does the odd semester at MIT begin?', 'July'),
 ('What does NAAC stand for?', 'National Assessment and Accreditation Council'),
 ('How long are the undergraduate programs at MIT Manipal?', 'four/five-year'),
 ('What degree programs are offered at MIT Manipal?',
  'Master of Science (M.S.) in Software Engineering, Master of Computer '
  'Applications (M.C.A.), and an integrated M.B.A.')]




Admissions to postgraduate programs are either on the basis of an entrance exam or the performance in an undergraduate degree program. All applicants are required to have appropriate bachelor's degrees. The institute also offers Ph.D. programs on a full-time or part-time basis for suitably qualified candidates. Manipal Institute of Technology was ranked 4th among engineering colleges in India by India Today in , among private engineering colleges by Outlook India in , and 1st among engineering colleges by the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) in .

[('What is the basis for admission to postgraduate programs?',
  'an entrance exam'),
 ('What are all applicants required to have?',
  "appropriate bachelor's degrees."),
 ('What type of programs does the Manipal Institute of Technology offer on a '
  'full-time or part-time basis?',
  'Ph.D. programs'),
 ('Who ranked Manipal Institute of Technology 4th among engineering colleges '
  'in India?',
  'India Today in')]



Admission to Manipal Institute of Technology is through the Manipal Entrance Test (MET), which replaced the Manipal University Online Entrance Test (MU OET) for and beyond and is carried out at centers across India. It is a computer-based exam and consists of questions testing Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, English, and Logical Reasoning and spans a duration of 2 hours and 30 minutes. The test is for 200 marks, +4 for every correct answer and -1 for every wrong one. MAHE offers two opportunities for a student to write the entrance exam, subject to additional payment and availability of vacancies. The format was changed and the test now has 200 questions and the total maximum marks are 800.

[('What does MET stand for?', 'Manipal Entrance Test'),
 ('What type of exam is the Manipal Entrance Test?', 'computer-based'),
 ('How many marks does the Manipal Entrance Test get for every correct answer?',
  '+4'),
 ('How many opportunities does MAHE offer for a student to write the entrance '
  'exam?',
  'two'),
 ('How many marks does the Manipal Entrance Test have?', '200')]



Each MCQ (Multiple Choice Question) carries 4 marks with negative marking, whereas each NAT (Numerical Answer Type) carries 4 marks with no negative marking. , unlike other entrance exams, the computer-based exam scores are displayed immediately after the exam ends, with which one may appear for admission counseling. The institute makes budgetary provisions for the maintenance of research equipment through capital allocation. An amount of ₹ million was sanctioned to the institute in – towards innovation. MITians have access to various journals and educational materials to facilitate research by students.

[('What carries 4 marks with negative marking?',
  'MCQ (Multiple Choice Question)'),
 ('What is the advantage of computer-based exam scores?',
  ', unlike other entrance exams, the computer-based exam scores are displayed '
  'immediately after the exam ends,'),
 ('What does MIT make budgetary provisions for?',
  'maintenance of research equipment'),
 ('How much money was sanctioned to the MIT institute for innovation?',
  'million'),
 ('What do MITians have access to to facilitate research by students?',
  'various journals and educational materials')]



Students of the institute take up summer internship as a part of their curriculum. Several research programs in the areas of nanotechnology, nuclear engineering, VLSI design, and pattern recognition are being pursued in the interdisciplinary labs under the institute's Innovation Centre. The oldest student organizations are the Editorial Board and the Student Council. The Student Council, MIT Manipal, is the apex student body of the institute, composed of elected student representatives. The President chairs the council followed by the General Secretary.

[('What do students of MIT Manipal take up as a part of their curriculum?',
  'summer internship'),
 ('What research programs are being pursued in the interdisciplinary labs '
  "under the institute's Innovation Centre?",
  'nanotechnology, nuclear engineering, VLSI design, and pattern recognition'),
 ('What is the oldest student organization at MIT?', 'Editorial Board'),
 ('What is the apex student body of MIT Manipal?', 'The Student Council,'),
 ('Who chairs the Student Council?', 'The President')]



The Cultural Secretary is overall in charge of all cultural clubs of the institute and is also the convener of Revels, along with the Sports Secretary. Likewise, the Sports Secretary is responsible for all the sporting activities of the institute and heads as well as coordinates with all the sports captains of various sports clubs and teams of the institute. Similarly, Technical Secretary heads all the technical clubs, and Placement Secretaries coordinate with the companies and students during the placement season. Overall, there are close to a hundred clubs and organizations in the institute. The clubs are completely run and managed by the students, and they host a variety of events/competitions throughout the year.

[('Who is in charge of all cultural clubs of the institute?',
  'Cultural Secretary'),
 ('Who does the Sports Secretary coordinate with?', 'sports captains'),
 ('Who coordinates with the companies and students during the placement '
  'season?',
  'Placement Secretaries'),
 ('How many clubs and organizations are in the institute?',
  'close to a hundred'),
 ('What do the clubs host throughout the year?',
  'a variety of events/competitions')]



Technical clubs like SAE-IM (Society of Automotive Engineers-India| Manipal), ASME (American Society of Mechanical Engineers), IE-CSE, IE-Civil, IE-E&C, IE E&E, IE-Mechatronics, cultural clubs like Goonj, The Hindi Literary Club, Blank-, Comedy Club Manipal, ΛδQ (The Literary, Debate, and Quiz Club), Red-X (The Socio-Adventure Club), and more clubs like ADA Dramatics, Aaina Dramatics, and The Music and Fine Arts Club have won several awards at major cultural fests such as Unmaad, IIM Bangalore, and Mood Indigo, IIT Bombay.

[('What clubs have won several awards at major cultural fests like Unmaad, IIM '
  'Bangalore, and Mood Indigo?',
  'ADA Dramatics, Aaina Dramatics, and The Music and Fine Arts Club')]


The college has an official student-run media body, The MIT Post. It was founded on November . The MIT Post keeps a record of all student activities on campus, including those of all other clubs and organizations. Another prominent name is the Photography Club, Manipal, which is the official photography club of the college founded all the way back in . Teams from ManipalTech have won innovation and entrepreneurship competitions such as the GE Edison Innovation Challenge and consecutive victories at the Schneider Electric India Innovation Challenge. The college has several technical clubs, including international as well as national student organizations such as the ACM, IEEE, ISTE, IEMCT, and ASME. These clubs are very active on campus and organize workshops and various other events on a regular basis.

[('When was the MIT Post founded?', 'November'),
 ('When was the MIT Post founded?', 'November'),
 ('When was the Photography Club, Manipal founded?', 'all the way back in'),
 ('When was the Photography Club, Manipal founded?', 'all the way back in'),
 ('What innovation and entrepreneurship competition has ManipalTech won?',
  'GE Edison Innovation Challenge'),
 ('What type of clubs does ManipalTech have?', 'technical'),
 ('What do the technical clubs organize on a regular basis?',
  'workshops and various other events')]



Formula Manipal is a student initiative aiming to conceive, design, fabricate, develop, and compete with other formula-style vehicles at international Formula Student events. They built a cc race car that was selected to participate in the Formula SAE competition organized by the Society of Automotive Engineers held at Ferrari Race Track at Maranello in Italy, an international race car design competition attended by universities from across the world. In , the team participated with the second prototype at FS UK, held at the Silverstone F track. ThrustMIT is one of the country’s first rocketry teams. The team aims to foster interest and innovation in the field of rocketry.

[('What is Formula Manipal?', 'student'),
 ('Where was the Formula SAE competition held?',
  'Ferrari Race Track at Maranello'),
 ('When did the Formula Manipal team participate in the Silverstone F track?',
  'In'),
 ("What is one of the country's first rocketry teams?", 'ThrustMIT'),
 ('What is the goal of ThrustMIT?',
  'to foster interest and innovation in the field of rocketry.')]



The modus operandi at ThrustMIT involves providing team members with hands-on experience in this field, allowing them to improve and learn on the job, which ultimately aids them in supporting the team’s endeavors. Project Manas is another initiative by students and is an AI robotics team that was founded in the year . They have taken part in India's biggest driverless car challenge - "Spark The Rise" - organized by Mahindra. The team qualified for three stages and is one of the top teams to qualify for the prototyping phase.

[('When was Project Manas founded?', 'the year'),
 ('When was Project Manas founded?', 'the year'),
 ('When was Project Manas founded?', 'the year'),
 ('When was Project Manas founded?', 'the year')]



The prototype is capable of detecting and navigating around pedestrians, a variety of traffic signs and signals, road and non-road regions, vehicles along with a wide range of other obstacles. AeroMIT is a student project aiming towards aeromodelling and drone research. They design and fabricate RC and autonomous aerial vehicles for competition as well as research purposes. The year - was one of the most successful years for the team. They secured podium positions in national competitions like Aerophilia and Techfest, . The team also secured world rank in their flagship competition SAE Aerodesign East held in Lakeland, Florida. Other than that, the team secured world rank in the category of oral presentation by scoring the highest points in the history of the competition and was also the only team to lift the maximum possible payload.

[('The prototype is capable of detecting and navigating around pedestrians, '
  'road and non-road regions, and what other obstacle?',
  'vehicles'),
 ('What is the name of the student project aiming towards aeromodelling and '
  'drone research?',
  'AeroMIT'),
 ('What does AeroMIT design and fabricate?',
  'RC and autonomous aerial vehicles'),
 ('What national competitions did AeroMIT secure podium positions in?',
  'Aerophilia and Techfest,'),
 ('What national competitions did AeroMIT secure podium positions in?',
  'Aerophilia and Techfest,'),
 ('What is the name of the flagship competition held in Lakeland, Florida?',
  'SAE Aerodesign East'),
 ('What category did the AeroMIT team score the highest points in the history '
  'of the competition?',
  'oral presentation')]



Participating in competitions is not the only goal of the team; they also focus on various projects and research work. Mars Rover Manipal, one of the more recent endeavors by undergraduate students, is a multi-disciplinary team that designs and builds rovers for the exploration of extraterrestrial environments. They regularly compete in various competitions and have steadily improved their rankings at the University Rover Challenge held by the Mars Society USA, since they first entered in . It is a premier robotics competition held annually every summer at the Mars Desert Research Station in Utah, USA. MIT hosts one festival every semester.

[('What is not the only goal of the Mars Rover Manipal team?',
  'Participating in competitions'),
 ('What organization holds the University Rover Challenge?',
  'Mars Society USA, since they first entered in'),
 ('How long has the Mars Rover Manipal team been competing at the University '
  'Rover Challenge?',
  'since they first entered in'),
 ('How often is the Mars Rover Manipal competition held?', 'annually'),
 ('How many festivals does MIT host every semester?', 'one')]



In even semesters, there is a cultural and sports festival, "Revels". The official theme of the Revels festival was 'Qainaat'. The theme was to drive healthy environmental practices around the globe, to address the environmental crisis. In odd semesters, there is a technical festival, "Tech Tatva". These are student-organized fests, with participants from all over India and overseas. The students of the university, with some help from the administration, carry out the festivities on the campus. The entire process of managing and organizing the fest is handled by the students with the work being divided amongst various categories.

[('What kind of festival is "Revels"?', 'cultural and sports'),
 ('What is the name of the cultural and sports festival?', 'Revels'),
 ('What was the theme of the Revels festival?',
  'drive healthy environmental practices'),
 ('What type of festival is Tech Tatva?', 'technical'),
 ('What type of fest is Tech Tatva?', 'student-organized'),
 ('Who manages and organizes Tech Tatva?', 'students'),
 ('Who handles the entire process of managing and organizing the fest?',
  'the students')]



In , following aggressive protests by the students of the Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), the director, Kum Kum Garg, resigned from her post. The protesting students had demanded the resignation of the director for her alleged insensitive remarks over the death of a student in a bus accident. In March, MIT required students to download a software called Pexa Lite on their laptops, to conduct proctored end-semester exams. On installing the software, some students complained of their laptops slowing or crashing due to malware. In February, the students of MIT were called back to campus for the offline end-semester examinations.

[('When did the director of the Manipal Institute of Technology resign?', 'In'),
 ('Why did the protesting students demand the resignation of the director of '
  'the Manipal Institute of Technology?',
  'for her alleged insensitive remarks over the death of a student'),
 ('What software did MIT require students to download in March?', 'Pexa Lite'),
 ('What did some students complain about their laptops after installing Pexa '
  'Lite?',
  'slowing or crashing'),
 ('What happened to the students of MIT in February for the offline '
  'end-semester exams?',
  'called back to campus')]



But on March, offline classes were canceled due to the rising number of COVID- cases on campus. By the first week of April, over students of MIT were infected by the coronavirus due to poor social distancing and lax safety standards in the college. In the last week of May, MIT released a revised schedule for the upcoming months. This was a very chaotic, tough schedule. This caused outrage amongst the students, who were already not pleased with the college due to unpopular decisions taken by them over the course of the pandemic. The protests by the students of MIT were initially ignored by the administration of MIT and MAHE. But, on June, MIT cancelled the end-semester examinations and opted to prorate the marks based on previous semester performances.

[('Why were offline classes canceled?', 'COVID-'),
 ('Why were students infected with the coronavirus?', 'poor social distancing'),
 ('When did MIT release a revised schedule for the upcoming months?',
  'last week'),
 ('What type of schedule did MIT release in May?', 'very chaotic, tough'),
 ('What did the revised schedule cause amongst the students?', 'outrage'),
 ('Who ignored the protests of the students of MIT?', 'administration'),
 ('What did MIT do after the end of June?',
  'prorate the marks based on previous semester performances.')]
