{" What types of programs does MIT offer?": "MIT offers a Bachelor’s and Master’s program in engineering streams. It also gives students the option to carry out full-time or part-time research. The minimum duration for postgraduate qualified PhD students is three years for full-time, and four years for part-time. There is a one-year relaxation for applicants with an MPhil degree. The institute undertakes sponsored research programs supported by funding agencies such as DST, CSIR, AICTE, and the Ministry of Environmental Sciences. It has collaborative research programs in association with premier research laboratories and institutes in India and abroad<ans>MIT offers a Bachelor’s and Master’s program in engineering stream</ans>. It also gives students the option to carry out full-time or part-time research. The minimum duration for postgraduate qualified PhD students is three years for full-time, and four years for part-time. There is a one-year relaxation for applicants with an MPhil degree. The institute undertakes sponsored research programs supported by funding agencies such as DST, CSIR, AICTE, and the Ministry of Environmental Sciences. It has collaborative research programs in association with premier research laboratories and institutes in India and abroad", " What is the main benefit of MIT's engineering programs?": "MIT offers a Bachelor’s and Master’s program in engineering streams.<ans>It also gives students the option to carry out full-time or part-time researc</ans>. The minimum duration for postgraduate qualified PhD students is three years for full-time, and four years for part-time. There is a one-year relaxation for applicants with an MPhil degree. The institute undertakes sponsored research programs supported by funding agencies such as DST, CSIR, AICTE, and the Ministry of Environmental Sciences. It has collaborative research programs in association with premier research laboratories and institutes in India and abroad", " What is the minimum duration for postgraduate qualified PhD students?": "MIT offers a Bachelor’s and Master’s program in engineering streams. It also gives students the option to carry out full-time or part-time research.<ans>The minimum duration for postgraduate qualified PhD students is three years for full-time, and four years for part-tim</ans>. There is a one-year relaxation for applicants with an MPhil degree. The institute undertakes sponsored research programs supported by funding agencies such as DST, CSIR, AICTE, and the Ministry of Environmental Sciences. It has collaborative research programs in association with premier research laboratories and institutes in India and abroad", " What is the maximum length of time for a PhD student at MIT?": "MIT offers a Bachelor’s and Master’s program in engineering streams. It also gives students the option to carry out full-time or part-time research. The minimum duration for postgraduate qualified PhD students is three years for full-time, and four years for part-time.<ans>There is a one-year relaxation for applicants with an MPhil degre</ans>. The institute undertakes sponsored research programs supported by funding agencies such as DST, CSIR, AICTE, and the Ministry of Environmental Sciences. It has collaborative research programs in association with premier research laboratories and institutes in India and abroad", " What types of research does MIT undertake": "MIT offers a Bachelor’s and Master’s program in engineering streams. It also gives students the option to carry out full-time or part-time research. The minimum duration for postgraduate qualified PhD students is three years for full-time, and four years for part-time. There is a one-year relaxation for applicants with an MPhil degree.<ans>The institute undertakes sponsored research programs supported by funding agencies such as DST, CSIR, AICTE, and the Ministry of Environmental Science</ans>. It has collaborative research programs in association with premier research laboratories and institutes in India and abroad", " What is MIT's research program?": "MIT offers a Bachelor’s and Master’s program in engineering streams. It also gives students the option to carry out full-time or part-time research. The minimum duration for postgraduate qualified PhD students is three years for full-time, and four years for part-time. There is a one-year relaxation for applicants with an MPhil degree. The institute undertakes sponsored research programs supported by funding agencies such as DST, CSIR, AICTE, and the Ministry of Environmental Sciences.<ans>It has collaborative research programs in association with premier research laboratories and institutes in India and abroad</ans>", " What was the name of the institute of technology": "The Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), Manipal was established in 1957 as one of the first self-financing engineering colleges in the countr<ans>The Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), Manipal was established in 1957 as one of the first self-financing engineering colleges in the countr</ans>", " Has the institute always been proactive in placing students?": "Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Manipal has always been very proactive in placing students into their preferred profiles. The institute has a well-organized placement team headed by the Associate Director, three Assistant Directors, and faculty and student coordinators from each department. The student body comprising Placement Secretaries from the Student Council and other support teams, provides seamless support to the students in the placement process. 300+ recruiting teams, including 50+ Fortune 500 companies, visit MIT Manipal for UG and PG campus placements and internships recruitment every year<ans>Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Manipal has always been very proactive in placing students into their preferred profile</ans>. The institute has a well-organized placement team headed by the Associate Director, three Assistant Directors, and faculty and student coordinators from each department. The student body comprising Placement Secretaries from the Student Council and other support teams, provides seamless support to the students in the placement process. 300+ recruiting teams, including 50+ Fortune 500 companies, visit MIT Manipal for UG and PG campus placements and internships recruitment every year", " Who heads the placement team at MIT": "Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Manipal has always been very proactive in placing students into their preferred profiles.<ans>The institute has a well-organized placement team headed by the Associate Director, three Assistant Directors, and faculty and student coordinators from each departmen</ans>. The student body comprising Placement Secretaries from the Student Council and other support teams, provides seamless support to the students in the placement process. 300+ recruiting teams, including 50+ Fortune 500 companies, visit MIT Manipal for UG and PG campus placements and internships recruitment every year", " What is the role of the placement team at MIT": "Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Manipal has always been very proactive in placing students into their preferred profiles. The institute has a well-organized placement team headed by the Associate Director, three Assistant Directors, and faculty and student coordinators from each department.<ans>The student body comprising Placement Secretaries from the Student Council and other support teams, provides seamless support to the students in the placement proces</ans>. 300+ recruiting teams, including 50+ Fortune 500 companies, visit MIT Manipal for UG and PG campus placements and internships recruitment every year", " How many recruiting teams visit MIT Manipal": "Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Manipal has always been very proactive in placing students into their preferred profiles. The institute has a well-organized placement team headed by the Associate Director, three Assistant Directors, and faculty and student coordinators from each department. The student body comprising Placement Secretaries from the Student Council and other support teams, provides seamless support to the students in the placement process.<ans>300+ recruiting teams, including 50+ Fortune 500 companies, visit MIT Manipal for UG and PG campus placements and internships recruitment every year</ans>", " What is the Career Counselling Cell": "MIT has a fully functional career counselling cell where students can approach for advice regarding their future career opportunities and higher education. Professors from various departments guide these students in their respective areas. This cell helps students make informed career choices concerning higher education. Besides counselling support, the Career Counselling Cell organises programs to create awareness of higher education opportunities in India and abroad<ans>MIT has a fully functional career counselling cell where students can approach for advice regarding their future career opportunities and higher educatio</ans>. Professors from various departments guide these students in their respective areas. This cell helps students make informed career choices concerning higher education. Besides counselling support, the Career Counselling Cell organises programs to create awareness of higher education opportunities in India and abroad", " Who guides students in the career counselling cell?": "MIT has a fully functional career counselling cell where students can approach for advice regarding their future career opportunities and higher education.<ans>Professors from various departments guide these students in their respective area</ans>. This cell helps students make informed career choices concerning higher education. Besides counselling support, the Career Counselling Cell organises programs to create awareness of higher education opportunities in India and abroad", " What is the purpose of the Career Counselling Cell?": "MIT has a fully functional career counselling cell where students can approach for advice regarding their future career opportunities and higher education. Professors from various departments guide these students in their respective areas.<ans>This cell helps students make informed career choices concerning higher educatio</ans>. Besides counselling support, the Career Counselling Cell organises programs to create awareness of higher education opportunities in India and abroad", " What does the Career Counselling Cell do": "MIT has a fully functional career counselling cell where students can approach for advice regarding their future career opportunities and higher education. Professors from various departments guide these students in their respective areas. This cell helps students make informed career choices concerning higher education.<ans>Besides counselling support, the Career Counselling Cell organises programs to create awareness of higher education opportunities in India and abroad</ans>", " What is the name of the placement team at MIT": "MIT has a full-fledged student body called the “Placement Team”, with Placement Secretaries of the student council at its helm. This body is involved in various placements-related activities that include conducting skill development programs, workshops related to placements, and social media connect, to name a few. This body strengthens the connection between the students, the recruiters, and the placement cell<ans>MIT has a full-fledged student body called the “Placement Team”, with Placement Secretaries of the student council at its hel</ans>. This body is involved in various placements-related activities that include conducting skill development programs, workshops related to placements, and social media connect, to name a few. This body strengthens the connection between the students, the recruiters, and the placement cell", " What is the role of the Placement Team": "MIT has a full-fledged student body called the “Placement Team”, with Placement Secretaries of the student council at its helm.<ans>This body is involved in various placements-related activities that include conducting skill development programs, workshops related to placements, and social media connect, to name a fe</ans>. This body strengthens the connection between the students, the recruiters, and the placement cell", " What does the placement team do": "MIT has a full-fledged student body called the “Placement Team”, with Placement Secretaries of the student council at its helm. This body is involved in various placements-related activities that include conducting skill development programs, workshops related to placements, and social media connect, to name a few.<ans>This body strengthens the connection between the students, the recruiters, and the placement cell</ans>", " How is the placement process at MIT enabled?": "The placement process at MIT is enabled through an automated Placement Portal, which allows students to apply for jobs with just a click of a button. The students are notified as and when a job is posted, and they can apply immediately through their mobile for the jobs. Through this portal, we provide students practice for various company-specific online tests, thus increasing the number of students clearing the tests<ans>The placement process at MIT is enabled through an automated Placement Portal, which allows students to apply for jobs with just a click of a butto</ans>. The students are notified as and when a job is posted, and they can apply immediately through their mobile for the jobs. Through this portal, we provide students practice for various company-specific online tests, thus increasing the number of students clearing the tests", " How is the placement process at MIT handled?": "The placement process at MIT is enabled through an automated Placement Portal, which allows students to apply for jobs with just a click of a button.<ans>The students are notified as and when a job is posted, and they can apply immediately through their mobile for the job</ans>. Through this portal, we provide students practice for various company-specific online tests, thus increasing the number of students clearing the tests", " How does the Placement Portal help students?": "The placement process at MIT is enabled through an automated Placement Portal, which allows students to apply for jobs with just a click of a button. The students are notified as and when a job is posted, and they can apply immediately through their mobile for the jobs.<ans>Through this portal, we provide students practice for various company-specific online tests, thus increasing the number of students clearing the tests</ans>", " What is the purpose of the MoU?": "We have signed an MoU with one of the leading coaching institutes in India for training students for various entrance examinations to pursue their higher education in India and abroad. Interested students can make use of this opportunity. The classes are being held at MIT premises, so the students need not travel outside the campus for the training program<ans>We have signed an MoU with one of the leading coaching institutes in India for training students for various entrance examinations to pursue their higher education in India and abroa</ans>. Interested students can make use of this opportunity. The classes are being held at MIT premises, so the students need not travel outside the campus for the training program", " What is the benefit of signing an MoU with MIT?": "We have signed an MoU with one of the leading coaching institutes in India for training students for various entrance examinations to pursue their higher education in India and abroad.<ans>Interested students can make use of this opportunit</ans>. The classes are being held at MIT premises, so the students need not travel outside the campus for the training program", " What is the advantage of signing an MoU with MIT?": "We have signed an MoU with one of the leading coaching institutes in India for training students for various entrance examinations to pursue their higher education in India and abroad. Interested students can make use of this opportunity.<ans>The classes are being held at MIT premises, so the students need not travel outside the campus for the training program</ans>", " What is the degree in Tech in CSE?": "B. Tech in CSE (AI&ML) offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department provides the budding engineers with a spectacular array of courses dedicated to frontiers in the field of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI&ML) with a foundation of Computer Science & Engg. The 4-year full-time program presents exposure to hands-on technologies to create applications and solutions for the world that we live in<ans></ans>. Tech in CSE (AI&ML) offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department provides the budding engineers with a spectacular array of courses dedicated to frontiers in the field of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI&ML) with a foundation of Computer Science & Engg. The 4-year full-time program presents exposure to hands-on technologies to create applications and solutions for the world that we live in", " What is the B. Tech in AI&ML?": "B.<ans>Tech in CSE (AI&ML) offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department provides the budding engineers with a spectacular array of courses dedicated to frontiers in the field of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI&ML) with a foundation of Computer Science & Eng</ans>. The 4-year full-time program presents exposure to hands-on technologies to create applications and solutions for the world that we live in", " What is the main benefit of the B. Tech program?": "B. Tech in CSE (AI&ML) offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department provides the budding engineers with a spectacular array of courses dedicated to frontiers in the field of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI&ML) with a foundation of Computer Science & Engg.<ans>The 4-year full-time program presents exposure to hands-on technologies to create applications and solutions for the world that we live in</ans>", " What is the focus of the curriculum": "The curriculum focuses on the Foundations of Computational Mathematics, core areas of Computer Science, along with the latest advancements in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning. Core courses in Computer Science help students to drive them through the ever-changing IT requirements. The specialized areas of AI&ML are offered as minor specializations. The specialized areas of AI&ML are offered as minor specializations<ans>The curriculum focuses on the Foundations of Computational Mathematics, core areas of Computer Science, along with the latest advancements in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learnin</ans>. Core courses in Computer Science help students to drive them through the ever-changing IT requirements. The specialized areas of AI&ML are offered as minor specializations. The specialized areas of AI&ML are offered as minor specializations", " What is the purpose of the core courses?": "The curriculum focuses on the Foundations of Computational Mathematics, core areas of Computer Science, along with the latest advancements in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning.<ans>Core courses in Computer Science help students to drive them through the ever-changing IT requirement</ans>. The specialized areas of AI&ML are offered as minor specializations. The specialized areas of AI&ML are offered as minor specializations", " What is the difference between the core and the specialized areas of AI&ML?": "The curriculum focuses on the Foundations of Computational Mathematics, core areas of Computer Science, along with the latest advancements in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning. Core courses in Computer Science help students to drive them through the ever-changing IT requirements.<ans>The specialized areas of AI&ML are offered as minor specialization</ans>. The specialized areas of AI&ML are offered as minor specializations", " What is the minor specialization of AI&ML offered as?": "The curriculum focuses on the Foundations of Computational Mathematics, core areas of Computer Science, along with the latest advancements in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning. Core courses in Computer Science help students to drive them through the ever-changing IT requirements.<ans>The specialized areas of AI&ML are offered as minor specializations</ans> The specialized areas of AI&ML are offered as minor specializations", " What is the potential for a career in AI&ML?": "With a huge explosion in data and its applications, a career in the field of AI&ML can be very promising as Big Data Engineer, Business Intelligence Developer, Data Scientist, Machine Learning Engineer, Research Scientist, AI Data Analyst, AI Engineer, Robotics Scientist, etc. With a specific job description on AI&ML, students have been recruited by reputed industries like Microsoft, Amazon, Goldman Sachs, Oracle GBU, Cisco, Dell Technologies, Accenture, among others. From the IT sector to healthcare, AI&ML has proven its worth. The future roles are many with AI&ML as the foundation. The graduates of the program can pursue higher education and research at premier national or international universities with a great future in research.<ans>With a huge explosion in data and its applications, a career in the field of AI&ML can be very promising as Big Data Engineer, Business Intelligence Developer, Data Scientist, Machine Learning Engineer, Research Scientist, AI Data Analyst, AI Engineer, Robotics Scientist, et</ans>. With a specific job description on AI&ML, students have been recruited by reputed industries like Microsoft, Amazon, Goldman Sachs, Oracle GBU, Cisco, Dell Technologies, Accenture, among others. From the IT sector to healthcare, AI&ML has proven its worth. The future roles are many with AI&ML as the foundation. The graduates of the program can pursue higher education and research at premier national or international universities with a great future in research.", " What companies have recruited students in AI&ML?": "With a huge explosion in data and its applications, a career in the field of AI&ML can be very promising as Big Data Engineer, Business Intelligence Developer, Data Scientist, Machine Learning Engineer, Research Scientist, AI Data Analyst, AI Engineer, Robotics Scientist, etc.<ans>With a specific job description on AI&ML, students have been recruited by reputed industries like Microsoft, Amazon, Goldman Sachs, Oracle GBU, Cisco, Dell Technologies, Accenture, among other</ans>. From the IT sector to healthcare, AI&ML has proven its worth. The future roles are many with AI&ML as the foundation. The graduates of the program can pursue higher education and research at premier national or international universities with a great future in research.", " What industries have been able to benefit from AI&ML?": "With a huge explosion in data and its applications, a career in the field of AI&ML can be very promising as Big Data Engineer, Business Intelligence Developer, Data Scientist, Machine Learning Engineer, Research Scientist, AI Data Analyst, AI Engineer, Robotics Scientist, etc. With a specific job description on AI&ML, students have been recruited by reputed industries like Microsoft, Amazon, Goldman Sachs, Oracle GBU, Cisco, Dell Technologies, Accenture, among others.<ans>From the IT sector to healthcare, AI&ML has proven its wort</ans>. The future roles are many with AI&ML as the foundation. The graduates of the program can pursue higher education and research at premier national or international universities with a great future in research.", " What is the future of AI&ML?": "With a huge explosion in data and its applications, a career in the field of AI&ML can be very promising as Big Data Engineer, Business Intelligence Developer, Data Scientist, Machine Learning Engineer, Research Scientist, AI Data Analyst, AI Engineer, Robotics Scientist, etc. With a specific job description on AI&ML, students have been recruited by reputed industries like Microsoft, Amazon, Goldman Sachs, Oracle GBU, Cisco, Dell Technologies, Accenture, among others. From the IT sector to healthcare, AI&ML has proven its worth.<ans>The future roles are many with AI&ML as the foundatio</ans>. The graduates of the program can pursue higher education and research at premier national or international universities with a great future in research.", " What is the potential for graduates of AI&ML?": "With a huge explosion in data and its applications, a career in the field of AI&ML can be very promising as Big Data Engineer, Business Intelligence Developer, Data Scientist, Machine Learning Engineer, Research Scientist, AI Data Analyst, AI Engineer, Robotics Scientist, etc. With a specific job description on AI&ML, students have been recruited by reputed industries like Microsoft, Amazon, Goldman Sachs, Oracle GBU, Cisco, Dell Technologies, Accenture, among others. From the IT sector to healthcare, AI&ML has proven its worth. The future roles are many with AI&ML as the foundation.<ans>The graduates of the program can pursue higher education and research at premier national or international universities with a great future in researc</ans>.", " What is the role of a Data Scientist in the field of AI&ML?": "With a huge explosion in data and its applications, a career in the field of AI&ML can be very promising as Big Data Engineer, Business Intelligence Developer, Data Scientist, Machine Learning Engineer, Research Scientist, AI Data Analyst, AI Engineer, Robotics Scientist, etc. With a specific job description on AI&ML, students have been recruited by reputed industries like Microsoft, Amazon, Goldman Sachs, Oracle GBU, Cisco, Dell Technologies, Accenture, among others. From the IT sector to healthcare, AI&ML has proven its worth. The future roles are many with AI&ML as the foundation. The graduates of the program can pursue higher education and research at premier national or international universities with a great future in research.<ans>With a huge explosion in data and its applications, a career in the field of AI&ML can be very promising as Big Data Engineer, Business Intelligence Developer, Data Scientist, Machine Learning Engineer, Research Scientist, AI Data Analyst, AI Engineer, Robotics Scientist, etc. With a specific job description on AI&ML, students have been recruited by reputed industries like Microsoft, Amazon, Goldman Sachs, Oracle GBU, Cisco, Dell Technologies, Accenture, among others. From the IT sector to healthcare, AI&ML has proven its worth. The future roles are many with AI&ML as the foundation. The graduates of the program can pursue higher education and research at premier national or international universities with a great future in research.</ans>With a huge explosion in data and its applications, a career in the field of AI&ML can be very promising as Big Data Engineer, Business Intelligence Developer, Data Scientist, Machine Learning Engineer, Research Scientist, AI Data Analyst, AI Engineer, Robotics Scientist, etc. With a specific job description on AI&ML, students have been recruited by reputed industries like Microsoft, Amazon, Goldman Sachs, Oracle GBU, Cisco, Dell Technologies, Accenture, among others. From the IT sector to healthcare, AI&ML has proven its worth. The future roles are many with AI&ML as the foundation. The graduates of the program can pursue higher education and research at premier national or international universities with a great future in research."}